
===== PAGE 1 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
I
General Local  
Law 2018 (No. 1)
Amendment
EFFECTIVE 20 JULY 2018 TO 19 JULY 2028
STONNINGTON.VIC.GOV.AU
stonningtoncouncil
StonningtonNews
===== PAGE 2 =====

===== PAGE 3 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
A
PART 1 –  PRELIMINARY 5
 1. Name and Objectives of Local Law 6
 2. Authorising Provision of this Local Law 6
 3. Commencement of this Local Law 6
 4. Revocation Date of this Local Law 6
 5. Definition of Words Used in this Local Law 6
 6. Application of the Local Law 8
 7. Council Positions 8
 8. Conflict with Other Legislation 8
PART 2 –  ADMINISTRATION OF THIS LOCAL LAW 9
 9. Exercise of Discretions 10
 10. Register of Determinations 10
 11. Direction of Council: Notice to Comply 10
 12. Time to Comply 10
 13. Service of Notice to Comply 10
 14. Failure to Comply with a Notice to Comply 10
 15. Power of Authorised Officers to Act in Urgent Circumstances 10
 16. Appeals 10
 17. Compliance with Directions and Notices 11
 18. Delegations and Authorisations 11
 19. Incorporation of Documents 11
PART 3 –  THE COMMON SEAL 12
 20. Purpose of the Common Seal 13
 21. Who Keeps the Common Seal 13
 22. Signatures to Accompany the Common Seal 13
 23. Affixing the Common Seal 13
 24. Unauthorised Use of the Common Seal 13
PART 4 – COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION - REPEALED 14
 Part 4 of the Principal Local Law is repealed (at time of Amendment to City of Stonnington  
 Local Law in 2023), see Governance Rules.   
PART 5 – MANAGEMENT OF DRAINS 16
 104. Interference with Council Drains, Sewers or Similar 17
 105. Maintenance of Drains 17
 106. Drainage of Properties 17
PART 6 – VEHICLE CROSSINGS 19
 107. Vehicle Crossings 20
 108. Temporary Vehicle Crossings 20
 109. Repair of Vehicle Crossings 20
Table of contents
===== PAGE 4 =====
B City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
PART 7 – PROTECTION OF COUNCIL LAND 21
 110. Defacing/Damaging Council Land 22
 111. Lighting Fires 22
 112. Trees or Plants Causing Damage to Council Land 22
 113. Trees and Plants on Council Land 22
 114. Temporary Buildings on a Road 22
 115. Damage to Kerbs, Paths and Other Assets from Building Work 22
PART 8 – USE OF MUNICIPAL PLACES 23
 116. Prohibition of Entry 24
 117. Behaviour 24
 118. Terms and Conditions of Admission to, or Membership of, a Municipal Place 24
 119. Prohibited Articles 24
 120. Directions 24
PART 9 – COUNCIL RESERVES 25
 121. Access to Council Reserves 26
 122. Use of Council Reserves 26
 123. Restrictions 26
PART 10 – ROADS, PUBLIC PLACES AND COUNCIL LAND 28
 124. Application 29
 125. Shopping Trolleys 29
 126. Footpath Trading Policy 29
 127. Obstructions 29
 128. Repairing Vehicles 29
 129. Consumption of Liquor 29
 130. Mobile Cranes 30
 131. Hoarding, Scaffolding and Overhead Protective Awning 30
 132. Bulk Rubbish and Storage Containers Left on Roads 30
 133. Clothing Bins 30
 134. Unregistered, Abandoned and Obstructing Vehicles 30
 135. Parking Permits 30
 136. Filming 30
 137. Toy Vehicles 30
PART 11 – STREET SELLING, COLLECTIONS AND DISTRIBUTIONS 31
 138. Itinerant Trading 32
 139. Street Appeals 32
 140. Street Promotions 32
 141. Processions, Street Festivals and Street Parties 32
===== PAGE 5 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
C
PART 12 – PROTECTION OF THE AMENITY OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT 33
 Division 1 – General 34
 142. Property Numbers 34
 143. Camping and Camping on Council Land or a Road 34
 144. Noise 34
 145. Advertisements 35
 146. Mobile Billboards 36
 147. Incinerators and Fires 36
 148. Chimneys 36
 149. Directive Powers 36
 150. Unsightly Premises 36
 151. Fencing of Vacant Land 36
 152.  Securing and Fencing Dilapidated Land 37
 153. Vermin and Noxious Weeds 37
 154. Dangerous Land 37
 155. Motor Vehicles and Machinery 37
 156. Overhanging and Encroaching Trees 37
 157. Dilapidated Buildings 37
PART 13 – BUILDING ACTIVITY 38
 158. Building Definitions 39
 159. Building Activity Hours 39
 160. Dust Control 39
 161. Spoil from Building Sites 39
 162. Building Material 39
PART 14 – TREE PROTECTION 40
 163. Tree Protection 41
PART 15 – ANIMALS AND BIRDS 43
 164. Application of Part 44
 165. Conditions Under Which Animals May be Kept 44
 166. Keeping of Animals Policy 44
 167. Animal Noises 44
 168. Animal Excrement 45
 169. Wasp Nest(s) and Bee Swarm(s) to be Removed 45
 170. Pest Animals 45
 171. Fencing of Dogs 45
 172. Feeding of Animals and Birds 45
===== PAGE 6 =====
D City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
PART 16 – SANITATION 46
 173. Supply and Use of Waste Receptacles 47
 174. Domestic and Recycling Waste Collection 47
 175. Trade Waste Bins and Hoppers 47
 176. Council Waste Acceptance Facilities 48
 177.  Directive Powers 48
PART 17 – PERMITS 49
 178. Application for a Permit 50
 179. Consideration of Applications 50
 180. Permits May be Conditional 50
 181. Power to Amend Conditions 51
 182. Security Bonds 51
 183. Register of Permits 51
 184. Duration of Permits 51
 185. Correction of Permits 51
 186. Cancellation, Suspension or Amendment of Permits 51
 187. Transferability of Permits 52
 188. Permit Issue and Refusal 52
 189. Exemptions 52
 190. Information 52
PART 18 – FEES, CHARGES AND COSTS 53
 191. Setting Fees and Charges 54
 192. Differential or Structured Fees and Charges 54
 193. Waiver or Alteration to Fees and Charges 54
PART 19 – INFRINGEMENT NOTICES 55
 194. Purpose 56
 195. Infringement Notice 56
PART 20 – ENFORCEMENT, OFFENCES AND PROSECUTIONS 57
 196. Recovery of Costs 58
 197. Offences 58
 198. General Penalties 58
 199. Power to Impound 58
 200. Impersonating Council Staff 58
SCHEDULE 5 59
 Procedural Motions Table 60
===== PAGE 7 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
5
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 1 – Preliminary
Part 1 –  
Preliminary
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 8 =====
6 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
1. Name and Objectives of Local Law
This Local Law is known as the General Local Law No. 1,  
and the objectives of this Local Law are to provide for:
(a)  the peace, order and good government of the Municipal 
District; 
(b)  the administration of Council powers and functions;
(c)  a safe and healthy environment so the community can 
enjoy a quality of life that meets its expectations;
(d) the safe and equitable use and enjoyment of  
Public Places;
(e) the protection and enhancement of the amenity and 
environment of the Municipal District;
(f) the fair and reasonable use and enjoyment of private land;
(g) the prohibition, regulation and control of activities, events, 
practices or behaviour in places so that no detriment is 
caused to the amenity of the neighbourhood nor nuisance 
caused to a person nor damage caused to a person’s 
property; and
(h) the prohibition, regulation and control of activities that may 
affect urban character and local amenity.
2. Authorising Provision of this Local Law
This Local Law is a Local Law made under section 1 1 1  
of the Local Government Act 1989 and section 42 of  
the Domestic Animal Act 1994.
3. Commencement of this Local Law
This Local Law comes into operation on the day after  
the date of notice of making the Local Law is published  
in the Victoria Government Gazette.
4. Revocation Date of this Local Law
This Local Law ceases to operate on 19 July 2028.
5. Definition of Words Used in this Local Law
Unless the contrary intention appears in this Local Law:
“Act” means the Local Government Act 1989, as amended 
from time to time.
“Advisory Committee” means an advisory committee 
established by Council under section 86(1) of the Act.
“Agenda” means the notice of a meeting setting out the 
business to be transacted at the meeting.
“Animal” includes a bird or reptile.
“Approved Receptacle” means a waste receptacle 
purchased and supplied by Council.
“Asset Protection Permit Bond” means a bond,  
bank guarantee or like security required to be paid  
under a Permit.
“Assistance Animal” has the same meaning as in  
section 9 of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth).
“Authorised Officer” means a person appointed by Council 
to be an Authorised Officer pursuant to section  
224 of the Act or treated by section 224A of that Act to have 
been either in relation to the whole of this Local Law  
or to a particular portion of it in which the term is used.
“Barbecue” means a permanent structure, device or 
contraption:
(a)  designed or constructed for the purpose of cooking food 
in the open air for human consumption; and
(b)  which is being used for the purpose of cooking food  
or prior to or subsequent to cooking food.
“Building” includes a part of a building, a structure, 
temporary structure, part of a temporary building, outbuilding, 
fence, wall, provision for lighting, heating,  
water supply, drainage and sewerage and any other 
appurtenances of a building.
“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the meeting  
and includes an acting, a temporary and a substitute 
Chairperson.
“Chief Executive Officer” means the Chief Executive Officer 
of Council appointed in accordance with section  
94 of the Act, or other person appointed to act in that position 
during the Chief Executive Officer’s absence.
“Chimney” includes a structure or opening of any kind  
from or through which smoke or air impurity may be  
emitted from a building.
“Committee” means an advisory Committee or a  
Special Committee.
“Common Seal” means the common seal of Council.
“Confidential Business” means:
(a) personnel matters;
(b) the personal hardship of any resident or ratepayer;
(c) industrial matters;
(d) contractual matters;
(e) proposed developments;
(f) legal advice;
(g) matters affecting the security of Council property;
(h) any matter that Council or the Special Committee 
considers would prejudice Council or any person;
===== PAGE 9 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
7
(i) a resolution to close the meeting to members  
of the public.
“Construct” includes build, construct, erect, place in position, 
re-build, re-construct, re-erect, replace in position or do any 
structural work.
“Council” means Stonnington City Council.
“Council Land” means all land:
(a) owned, leased, managed or occupied by Council; or 
(b) vested in Council or under the control of Council and 
which it has a duty to maintain.
“Council Meeting” means an Ordinary Meeting or a Special 
Meeting of Council.
“Council Reserve” means Council land that is:
(a) a sports ground; or
(b) a park; or
(c) a nature reservation; or
(d) a facility provided or used in association with activities  
at a sporting ground, park or nature reservation; or
(e) a place specified in the Procedure and Protocol Manual; 
or
(f) a reserve, as declared by resolution of the Council; or
(g) purchased by, leased or otherwise provided to or 
managed or controlled by Council for a recreation, cultural 
or entertainment purpose.
“Council Waste Depot” includes:
(a) any depot or station for the collection or transfer of Waste; 
or
(b) any Waste disposal landfill site, operated by or on  
behalf of Council.
“Councillor” means an elected person who holds the  
office of a member of Council.
“Delegate” means a delegate appointed on the nomination of 
Council.
“Election Period” means the election period as defined in 
section 3 of the Act.
“Extraordinary Vacancy” means an extraordinary vacancy  
as described in section 69(1) of the Act.
“Fire” includes smouldering or causing smoke (whether  
or not there is a conflagration) but does not include:
(a) a fire lit in the course of official duties by a member of a 
Fire Brigade;
(b) a domestic appliance; or
(c) a tool of trade.
“Footpath Trading Policy” means the code regulating 
activities that occur on the footpaths as adopted by Council by 
resolution dated 17 September 2007 as amended by Council 
from time to time.
“General Election” means a general election as described in 
section 31 of the Act.
“Director” means a member of staff occupying a second-level 
position in the organisational structure of the organisation as 
approved by Council.
“Goods” includes food or services.
“Graffiti” includes any inscriptions or drawings scribbled, 
scratched, sprayed or otherwise applied, as determined by 
Council, on any surface.
“Hard Waste” means garden refuse, any rubbish of a size, 
shape, nature or volume that cannot be contained in an 
Approved Receptacle including any brick, concrete, masonry 
or engine parts and any other type of rubbish prescribed by 
Council.
“Liquor” means a beverage intended for human consumption 
with an alcoholic content greater than 0.5 per centum by 
volume at a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius.
“Litter Device” means an apparatus designed for the 
purpose of removing Animal excrement and includes a paper 
or plastic bag.
“Manager” includes:
(a) the person for the time being holding the office of 
Manager of a swim centre; 
(b) any person from time to time acting as Manager of a swim 
centre; 
(c) any person from time to time appointed or authorised by 
Council to deal with, form an opinion, or act in regard to 
any act, matter or thing required or authorised to be dealt 
with or acted in regard to by a Manager;
(d) the person for the time being holding the office of Library 
Coordinator, or the person in charge of each branch library 
or history service, or senior on Duty Officer;
(e) the person for the time being holding the office of Director 
or Manager of the City of Stonnington; and
(f) any person holding the office of or from time to time acting 
as Manager of a municipal building.
“Material or Substance” includes undergrowth, scrub, 
bracken, ferns, weeds, stubble and grass (whether alive or 
dead and whether standing or not standing).
“Mayor” means the Mayor of Council and any person acting 
as Mayor.
===== PAGE 10 =====
8 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
“Meeting” means an Ordinary or a Special meeting of Council, 
a Special Committee meeting or an Advisory Committee 
meeting.
“Member” means a Councillor or a member of a Special 
Committee Meeting.
“Motor Vehicle” has the same meaning as in the Road Safety 
Act 1986. 
“Municipal District” means Council’s municipal district.
“Municipal Place” means the area which the public as the 
public may go (whether an admission fee is required or not)  
of a Library, building, golf course or swimming pool that is 
owned, managed or under the control of Council.
“Notice to Comply” means a Notice to Comply given  
under clause 11 specifically provided for in any other clause.
“Occasional Event” means a gathering of 30 or more people 
for any purpose.
“Ordinary Meeting” means an ordinary meeting of  
Council as described in section 83(a) of the Act.
“Penalty Unit” has the same meaning as set out in  
section 110 of the Sentencing Act 1991.
“Permit”, when used as a noun, means a written permit issued 
under this Local Law.
“Personal explanation” means an explanation about an action 
or statement where that action or statement reflects, or may 
reflect, on the personal qualities, conduct or reputation of the 
person making the explanation.
“Planning Scheme” means the Stonnington Planning Scheme 
or any replacement scheme.
“Principal Local Law” means the General Local Law  
No.1 made by Council.
“Public Body” means any government department or 
municipal Council or body established for a public purpose by 
an Act of the Parliament of Victoria, any other state or territory of 
the Commonwealth, or the Commonwealth.
“Public Place” has the same meaning as in the Summary 
Offences Act 1966.
“Road” has the same meaning as in the Local Government 
Act 1989.
“Segway” means a two wheeled self-balancing scooter.
“Sell” includes:
(a) barter, offer or attempt to sell, receive for sale, have  
in possession for sale, expose for sale, send, forward  
or deliver for sale, or allow to be sold or offered for  
sale; and
(b) sell for re-sale.
“Service Centre” means an administrative office of  
the Council.
“Special Committee” means a Special Committee established 
by Council under section 86 of the Act.
“Special Meeting” means a special meeting of Council  
as described in section 83(b) of the Act.
“Statutory Meeting” means a meeting of Council at which the 
Mayor is elected, as described in section 84A of the  
Act or as called under clause 26.
“Vehicle” has the same meaning as in the Road Safety  
Act 1986.
6. Application of the Local Law
(1) This Local Law applies throughout the whole of the 
Municipal District.
(2) Nothing in this Local Law relating to an Animal in general or 
a dog in particular prevents:
 (a) a person being entitled at all times and in all places to 
be accompanied by an Assistance Animal; or
 (b)  a member of the police force or government agency in 
charge of a dog from carrying out their law enforcement 
duties.
(3) This Local Law does not apply to an Authorised Officer or a 
member of Council staff in the course of carrying out that 
person’s powers and duties.
(4) This Local Law does not apply to a person engaged to 
undertake any activity on behalf of Council.
(5) No footnote in this Local Law shall be taken to form part of 
the Local Law.
(6) Explanatory notes shall not be taken to form part of the 
Local Law. They are provided to assist understanding.
7. Council Positions
(1) A reference to a person by way of that person’s position with 
Council includes a person:
 (a) authorised to carry out the powers, duties and   
functions of that position at Council;
 (b) acting in that capacity; or
 (c) if that position in Council ceases to exist, any  
person exercising any power, duty or function  
that was previously a power, duty or function  
of the previous position.
8. Conflict with Other Legislation
(1) This Local Law does not apply where any act or thing  
is authorised by or under the Planning Scheme.
===== PAGE 11 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
9
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 2  –  
Administration 
of this Local Law
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 12 =====
10 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
9. Exercise of Discretions
(1) In exercising a discretion in this Local Law, the matters that 
Council are to have regard to include:
 (a) the objectives and purposes of this Local Law;
 (b) any standards and codes of practice adopted by 
Council from time to time; and
 (c) any guidelines adopted by Council from time to time.
(2) Council may prepare guidelines for use by Council, a 
member of Council staff, Authorised Officers and other 
persons for the purposes of this Local Law.
(3) Guidelines prepared by Council must not be inconsistent 
with the objectives of this Local Law or with the standards 
and codes of practice as adopted by Council.
(4) In preparing guidelines, Council must have regard to the 
objectives of this Local Law and the standards and codes of 
practice as adopted by Council.
10. Register of Determinations
(1) A standard, code of practice or guideline adopted by 
Council for the purposes of this Local Law must be 
maintained by the Chief Executive Officer in a register  
kept for that purpose.
(2) The register must be available for inspection at the  
office of Council during normal business hours.
11. Direction of Council: Notice to Comply
(1) Council may, by a Notice to Comply, make any reasonable 
direction to a person:
 (a) to remedy any situation that, in the opinion of Council, 
constitutes a breach of this Local Law; or
 (b) to do anything specifically provided in this Local Law  
 and being the subject of a Notice to Comply,
  and the person must comply with that direction.
(2) Council may determine the form of a Notice to Comply 
contained in the Procedure and Protocol Manual.
12. Time to Comply
(1) A Notice to Comply must state the time and date by which 
the notice must be complied.
(2) The time required by a Notice to Comply served under this 
Local Law must be reasonable in the circumstances, and 
what will be reasonable will vary depending on the matters 
to be remedied; however, the following should be taken into 
account, where applicable:
 
 (a) the amount of work involved;
 (b) the degree of difficulty in remedying the situation;
 (c) the availability of necessary materials or other necessary 
items;
 (d) climatic conditions;
 (e) the degree of risk or potential risk; and
 (f) any other relevant matter.
13. Service of Notice to Comply
A Notice to Comply may be served or given pursuant to section 
315 of the Local Government Act 2020.
14. Failure to Comply with a Notice to Comply
A person who fails to comply with a Notice to Comply is guilty  
of an offence.
15. Power of Authorised Officers to Act in Urgent 
Circumstances
(1) An Authorised Officer may in urgent circumstances  
arising out of a failure to comply with this Local Law take 
immediate action to remedy the situation without the 
necessity to serve a Notice to Comply if:
 (a) their considers the circumstances or situation  
to be sufficiently urgent and that the time involved or 
difficulties associated with the serving of a Notice to 
Comply may place a person, Animal, property or  
thing at risk or in danger; and
 (b) details of the circumstances and remedying action  
are as soon as possible forwarded to the person  
on whose behalf the action was taken. 
(2) The action taken by an Authorised Officer under sub-clause 
(1) must not extend beyond what is reasonably necessary to 
remedy the risk or danger involved.
16. Appeals
(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a direction or Notice to 
Comply may, within 28 days after the date of issue of the 
direction or notice, apply to Council to be heard and may 
make a written submission for consideration by Council.
(2) Notwithstanding that a person has made application to 
Council in sub-clause (1) their is not relieved of the 
obligation to comply with the direction or Notice to Comply.
===== PAGE 13 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
11
17. Compliance with Directions and Notices
(1) Where:
 (a)  section 117 of the Local Government Act 2020 does  
 not apply; and 
 (b) the person given the direction or served with a   
 Notice to Comply fails to comply with the direction   
 or notice.
Council or any other person, with the approval of Council, may 
enter upon any land on which there is any such failure to 
comply and do all such acts, matters or things that are required 
to comply with the direction or Notice to Comply.
All costs and expenses incurred by Council in carrying out any 
acts, matters or things described in sub-clause (1) are a debt 
due to Council from the person on whom the direction or Notice 
to Comply was given or served.
18. Delegations and Authorisations
In accordance with section 114 of the Act, Council hereby 
delegates to the Chief Executive Officer and Authorised Officers 
all the powers, discretions, authorities and considerations of 
Council under this Local Law including the powers, discretions, 
authorities and considerations to make a direction by Notice to 
Comply, the powers, discretions and authority to issue or refuse 
Permits, fix conditions and durations relevant to Permits, cancel 
or suspend Permits, require additional information, apply 
guidelines, standards or codes of practice of Council, waive the 
need for any Permit or to do any act, matter or thing necessary 
or incidental to the exercise of any function or power by Council.
19. Incorporation of Documents
(1) The document titled “Procedure and Protocol Manual”,  
as made by Council and published from time to time  
on Council’s website, is hereby incorporated into this Local 
Law.
(2) The document titled “Keeping of Animals Policy”, as made 
by Council and published from time to time on Council’s 
website, is hereby incorporated into this Local Law.
(3) The document titled “Footpath Trading Policy”, as made by 
Council and published from time to time on Council’s 
website, is hereby incorporated into this Local Law.
===== PAGE 14 =====
12 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Part 3  –  
The Common  
Seal
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 15 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
13
20. Purpose of the Common Seal
The purpose of this Part is to regulate the use of the Common 
Seal and prohibit unauthorised use of the Common Seal or any 
device resembling the Common Seal.
21. Who Keeps the Common Seal
The Chief Executive Officer or a Director must keep the 
Common Seal in safe custody.
22. Signatures to Accompany the Common Seal
Every document to which the Common Seal is affixed  
must be signed by a Councillor and either the Chief  
Executive Officer or a Director.
23. Affixing the Common Seal
(1) The Common Seal may be affixed to a document for  
the purpose of giving effect to a decision:
 (a) made by Council resolution;
 (b) made by resolution of a Special Committee  
composed solely of Councillors;
 (c) made by resolution of a Special Committee under 
delegation; or
 (d) made by the Chief Executive Officer under delegation.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer must ensure a Common Seal 
register is kept that records, for each time the Common Seal 
is affixed to a document:
 (a) the names of the people who signed as witnesses;
 (b) a description of the document to which the Common 
Seal was affixed;
 (c) the date on which the Common Seal was affixed;
 (d) the date of the authorising Council resolution.
(3) The sealing clause is:
 “The COMMON SEAL of the  
 STONNINGTON CITY COUNCIL  
 was hereunto affixed in the  
 presence of:
 
 
  
Councillor 
  
Chief Executive Officer/Director”
(4) The sealing clause to be used by the Chief Executive Officer 
under delegation is:
 “Signed under delegation on behalf of Stonnington City 
Council by: 
 
  
Chief Executive Officer 
 
in the presence of 
  
Witness”
 
24. Unauthorised Use of the Common Seal
A person must not use the Common Seal or any  
device resembling the Common Seal without the authority  
of Council.

===== PAGE 16 =====
14 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Part 4  –  
Council administration  
- repealed
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 17 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
15
This page  
has intentionally  
been left blank
===== PAGE 18 =====
16 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1) 
Part 5  –  
Management 
of Drains
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 19 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
17
104. Interference with Council Drains, Sewers or Similar
(1) A person must not, without a Permit:
 (a) destroy;
 (b) damage;
 (c) interfere with; 
 (d) excavate; or 
 (e) tap into,
 any drain vested in Council.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit:
 (a) destroy;
 (b) damage;
 (c) interfere with; 
 (d) excavate; or 
 (e) tap into,
 any sewer, watercourse, ditch, creek, gutter, tunnel, bridge, 
levee, culvert or fence which is in, on or under Council 
Land.
105. Maintenance of Drains
(1) The owner and occupier of land must ensure that any drain 
on the land that is not vested in Council or another public 
authority is operated for the purpose for which it was 
designed.
(2) The owner and occupier of land must ensure that any drain 
on the land that is not vested in Council or another public 
authority is maintained in a condition that is not unsightly or 
a nuisance.
106. Drainage of Properties 
(1) The owner and occupier of land must ensure:
 (a) that the land is adequately drained to the satisfaction of 
an Authorised Officer; 
 (b) that the land does not discharge water that is a nuisance 
to an owner or occupier of adjoining land; and
 (c) water does not discharge from an air conditioner or 
other equipment onto a footpath. 
 

===== PAGE 20 =====
18 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
This page  
has intentionally  
been left blank
===== PAGE 21 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
19
Part 6  –  
Vehicle 
Crossings
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 22 =====
20 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
107. Vehicle Crossings
(1) The owner and occupier of land must ensure that each 
point of vehicular access from a Road to the land has  
an appropriately constructed vehicle crossing.
(2) A person must not cause, allow or drive a Motor  
Vehicle from or onto land other than by an appropriately 
constructed vehicle crossing.
(3) Council may serve a Notice to Comply on the owner  
and occupier of land requiring the repair, removal or 
replacement of a vehicle crossing.
108. Temporary Vehicle Crossings
(1) A person must construct a temporary vehicle crossing, to 
the satisfaction of an Authorised Officer, where it is likely that 
a Motor Vehicle accessing or leaving land, by reason of its 
nature, size or weight, may damage a kerb, gutter, nature 
strip, footpath or vehicle crossing.
(2) If a temporary vehicle crossing has been constructed in 
accordance with sub-clause (1), a person must not allow a 
Motor Vehicle to enter the land or exit the land other than by 
using the temporary vehicle crossing.
(3) A person who fails to comply with sub-clause (1) or (2) must 
repair any damage caused to the kerb, gutter, nature strip, 
footpath, vehicle crossing or other latent damage or,  
if Council elects to repair any damage, pay to Council  
the cost of repairing the damage.
109. Repair of Vehicle Crossings
The owner and occupier of land must ensure that each vehicle 
crossing to that land from an adjacent Road and any channel or 
pipe under or forming part of that crossing are maintained.
===== PAGE 23 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
21
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 7 –  
Protection of 
Council Land
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 24 =====
22 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
110. Defacing/Damaging Council Land
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, destroy, damage, 
remove or interfere with:
 (a) Council Land; 
 (b) any building, structure or any other thing on  
Council Land; 
 (c) anything belonging to Council on Council Land  
unless allowed by the Council, whether under this Local 
Law or otherwise; and
 (d) any Council property or assets owned or managed  
by Council and located on or in any Council Land.
(2) A person must not authorise or engage any other person to 
undertake the activities in sub-clause (1).
(3) A person must not:
 (a)  interfere with or use Council assets in such a way that 
causes damage or detriment; or
 (b)  any other person could be injured or suffer loss as a 
result of that interference or use; and
 (c)  attach anything to the Council asset.
(4) Notwithstanding sub-clause (1), a person may:
 (a)  plant vegetation on; or 
 (b) otherwise modify the appearance of the nature strip 
immediately outside land which they occupy if such 
planting or modification complies with the Nature Strip 
Planting Policy.
111. Lighting Fires
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, light or allow to be  
lit on or in any Council Land (except where permitted in  
a Council Reserve): 
 (a) any fire; or 
 (b) a barbecue.
112. Trees or Plants Causing Damage to Council Land
The owner and occupier of land must not allow a tree or plant 
on that land to cause damage to or interfere with Council Land 
or a building, structure or anything on Council Land.
113. Trees and Plants on Council Land
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, remove, damage, kill, 
destroy or adversely affect the health of any part of the tree 
or plant on Council Land.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit, prune, cut, trim,  
or interfere with in any way, any tree or plant on  
Council Land.
114. Temporary Buildings on a Road
A person must not, without a Permit, for the purpose of enabling 
any works to be carried out in, on or over a Road:
 (a) occupy or fence off a Road, or part of a Road; or
 (b) erect a structure or temporary crossing for vehicles  
in, on or over a road.
115. Damage to Kerbs, Paths and Other Assets from 
Building Work
(1) If a Building Permit is required for building work on land and 
that building work, person or class of persons have not 
been exempted (in accordance with the Procedure and 
Protocol Manual):
 (a) the owner of the relevant land;
 (b) the builder engaged to carry out building work on  
the land;
 (c) any appointed agent; or
 (d) any demolition contractor engaged to demolish some 
object on the land as part of the building work must:
 (a) not carry out or allow to be carried out building 
work on that land unless a Permit has been 
obtained;
 (b) not carry out or allow to be carried out building 
work on that land in breach of any conditions of a 
Permit that has been obtained; and
 (c) pay any Asset Protection Permit bond determined  
by Council from time to time, in accordance with  
the Procedure and Protocols Manual.
(2) Council may exempt any building work, person or  
class of persons from the requirement of a Permit. 
===== PAGE 25 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
23
Part 8 –  
Use of  
Municipal Places
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 26 =====
24 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
116. Prohibition of Entry
A person must not, without a Permit or in accordance with any 
other law:
 (a)  enter or remain in a Municipal Place without paying the 
appropriate fee (if any);
 (b)  enter or remain in a Municipal Place if that person is less 
than 10 years of age (except if in the care of an adult 
guardian);
 (c)  enter or remain in a Municipal Place if that person has 
been refused entry, excluded from entering or directed 
to leave a Municipal Place by a person who is 
authorised to do so;
 (d)  re-enter a Municipal Place within 24 hours (or such 
other time as directed) after being excluded from a 
Municipal Place;
 (e)  enter a Municipal Place if that person is suffering from 
any disease that presents a risk to the health of any 
other person;
 (f)  enter or leave a Municipal Place other than through an 
entrance or exit provided for the public for that purpose 
(unless the person is to use a specifically designated exit 
or entry); or
 (g)  have in their possession in or on a Municipal Place any 
Liquor or other illicit drug which is illegal to possess, or 
any legal drug which is used in an illegal manner.
117. Behaviour
(1)  A person must not while in or on a Municipal Place:
 (a)  behave in a manner that is offensive, indecent, insulting 
or riotous or engage in any conduct that is dangerous or 
that interferes with any other person;
 (b)  act contrary to any sign or procedure in respect of the 
use of the Municipal Place; 
 (c)  have any Animal in their possession other than an 
Assistance Animal;
 (d)  eat or drink other than in an authorised area;
 (e)  sell or hire any Goods in the Municipal Place other than 
with the written consent of a Manager or in accordance 
with a Permit;
 (f)  distribute, leave, post or display any pamphlet, poster, 
handbill or literature other than with the consent of a 
Manager. 
(2) Council may determine any sign or procedure for the 
purpose of clause 1(b).
(3) Council or an Authorised Officer may erect and display any 
sign or procedure for the purpose of clause 1(b).
118. Terms and Conditions of Admission to, or Membership 
of, a Municipal Place
(1) A person must:
 (a) comply with the terms and conditions of a membership 
or ticket of admission to any Municipal Place; and
 (b) not sell, transfer, give to or share a membership or ticket 
of admission to any Municipal Place with any other 
person.
119. Prohibited Articles
(1) A person must not, without the consent of Council or a 
Manager, bring into, cause or allow to be brought into or 
remain in any part of a Municipal Place:
 (a) any wheeled Vehicle, skateboard, scooter or similar 
thing other than a pram or pusher with a child, a 
wheelchair for the purpose of assisting a person with a 
disability or a trolley or other similar device used in the 
process of assisting the delivery or removal of goods; 
 (b) any ball or other inflatable rubber or plastic article that 
may interfere with the use or enjoyment of any person of 
the Municipal Place or any part of it;
 (c) any glass or thing containing glass other than a 
wristwatch, spectacles or thing for testing or sampling 
purposes pursuant to Regulations made under the 
Public Health and Wellbeing Act 2008; or
 (d) any chemical, substance, liquid or powder that, in  
the opinion of a member of Council staff, is dangerous 
to health or has the potential to foul, pollute or soil  
any part of a Municipal Place or to cause discomfort to 
any person in a Municipal Place by any means 
whatsoever.
120. Directions
(1) A person on Council Land must at all times observe  
and comply with any reasonable direction of a member  
of Council staff.
(2) A person who fails to comply with a direction given under 
sub-clause (1) is guilty of an offence.
===== PAGE 27 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
25
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 9  –  
Council 
Reserves
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 28 =====
26 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
121. Access to Council Reserves
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, construct an opening 
or gate in a fence to access a Council Reserve from 
residential land.
(2) A person must not use an opening or gate in a fence  
to access a Council Reserve from residential land unless in 
accordance with a Permit.
(3)  A person must not, without a Permit, access residential land 
from a Council Reserve for the purpose of Building Activity.
(4) A person must not, without a Permit, carry out any Building 
Activity in a Council Reserve.
122. Use of Council Reserves
A person must not, without a Permit, in or on any  
Council Reserve:
 (a) pitch, erect or occupy any tent, marquee or temporary 
shelter, or any jumping castle, amusement ride or other 
recreational infrastructure;
 (b) operate or allow to be operated any amusement for 
which a charge is made;
 (c) light any Fire or allow any Fire to remain alight unless in 
a fireplace provided by Council;
 (d) use a Barbecue other than a gas Barbecue;
 (e) hold any circus, carnival, fair, event, commercial or 
promotional activity;
 (f) conduct or attend any rally, procession, demonstration 
or other public gathering;
 (g) sell, hire or give away any Goods or other thing;
 (h) erect, fix, place or display any advertisement;
 (i) seek a collection of money for any purpose;
 (j) conduct or celebrate any wedding; 
 (k) conduct an Occasional Event;
 (l) conduct, participate, prepare or train for any competitive 
game or sport;
 (m) engage in, play or practice any game that may interfere 
with the use or enjoyment of the reserve by any other 
person;
 (n) unless the person is a player, official or competitor  
at any sports match or sports gathering authorised 
under this clause, enter or remain within or upon the 
playing arena during the progress of such sports match 
or sports gathering;
 (o) conduct personal training services for individuals or 
groups for which a charge is made;
 (p) ride or drive any horse or Motor Vehicle, except the 
parking of any Motor Vehicle in any parking area set 
aside for that purpose by Council;
 (q) park or leave standing any Motor Vehicle except in any 
parking area set aside for that purpose by Council;
 (r) use or operate a motorised toy car, segway or other 
motorised recreational vehicle or toy;
 (s) land helicopters or hot air balloons other than in an 
emergency; or
 (t) enter any plot or area that is set aside for the planting or 
growing of plants.
123. Restrictions
(1) A person must not:
 (a) fly or allow to be flown any model aeroplane, remote-
controlled helicopter or drone over a Council Reserve 
unless the Council Reserve is exempted for this 
purpose and specified in the Procedure and Protocol 
Manual.
 (aa) in any Council Reserve engage in, play or   
practice golf or archery;
 (b) enter a Council Reserve unless that person pays  
the required charge or entry fee (where applicable);
 (c) consume Liquor in a Council Reserve or designated 
part of a reserve unless in accordance with any 
exemption specified in the Procedure and  
Protocol Manual;
 (d) interfere with or remove a structure, notice, building, 
seat, tree or plant;
 (e) get on or over any fence or gate;
 (f) spit upon or otherwise foul any path or structure;
 (g) shoot, attempt to shoot, snare or attempt to snare, 
destroy or attempt to destroy any Animal;
 (h) interfere with, hinder or interrupt any member  
of Council staff or a member of a management 
committee of the reserve engaged in any duty;
 (i) behave in a manner that is offensive, indecent, 
insulting, riotous or disorderly or engage in any conduct 
that is dangerous or that interferes with any other 
person;
 (j) ride a bicycle, children’s toy, skateboard or skates  
in a manner that may interfere with the use or 
enjoyment of any part of the Council Reserve by  
any other person;
 (k) remain at any time when directed to leave the reserve 
by an Authorised Officer or member of Council staff 
(even though a fee or charge for admission may have 
been paid);
 
===== PAGE 29 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
27
 (l) do anything that may endanger a person; or
 (m) act contrary to a sign erected or authorised by  
Council or a management committee in respect  
to the use of the reserve or the conduct of a  
person in the reserve.
(2) If an Authorised Officer believes that a person is 
contravening or has contravened sub-clause (1)(c),  
the Authorised Officer may direct the person to seal  
any container or dispose of the contents of any  
unsealed container.
(3) A person who fails to obey a direction of an Authorised 
Officer under sub-clause (2) is guilty of an offence.
(4) Council may designate any area within a Council  
Reserve for the purpose of clause 1(a).
(5) Council may determine any sign for the purpose of  
clause 1(m).
(6) Council or an Authorised Officer may erect and display any 
sign for the purpose of clause 1(m).
(7) Council may prescribe the consumption of liquor in a 
Council Reserve or prescribed part of a reserve other than 
in accordance with the requirements specified in the 
Procedure and Protocol Manual;
(8) Council may designate a Council Reserve or part of  
a Council Reserve for the purpose of clause 1(c).
(9) Council may exempt a Council Reserve or part of a Council 
Reserve for the purpose of clause 1(c).
(1 0) Council may prescribe an event that is exempt from  
the requirement of clause 1(c).
===== PAGE 30 =====
28 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Par t 10  –  
Roads, Public 
Places and  
Council Land
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 31 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
29
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
124. Application
This Division applies to Roads, Public Places and Council Land 
within the Municipal District.
125. Shopping Trolleys
(1) A person must not make available for use, or permit to  
be used, a shopping trolley that does not have a device that 
is attached and used so as to ensure the return of  
the shopping trolley to an area specifically designated for 
storing shopping trolleys.
(2) Sub-clause (1) does not apply if the person makes available 
or permits to be used 25 shopping trolleys or less or where 
the trolley is fitted with a baby capsule.
(3) Council may exempt a person or a class of people from the 
application of sub-clause (1).
(4) A person who makes an application to Council for 
exemption from sub-clause (1) must not make or cause  
to be made any false representation.
(5) A person who makes or causes to be made any false 
representation is guilty of an offence.
(6) A person who operates a supermarket or similar activity 
where shopping trolleys are made available for use or are 
permitted to be used must ensure that a shopping trolley is 
not left on any Road or other Public Place.
(7) A person must not leave, cause to be left or authorise 
another person to leave a shopping trolley on any Road or 
other Public Place. 
(8) An Authorised Officer or a person engaged by Council may 
seize and impound any shopping trolley that is being made 
available for use, or which is being used, in contravention of 
this Local Law.
(9) As soon as practicable after the impoundment of any 
shopping trolley an Authorised Officer must, if the identity of 
the person who owns the shopping trolley can be identified, 
serve a notice of impoundment on that person.
(1 0) Any impounded shopping trolley must be returned to the 
owner of that shopping trolley after:
 (a) payment of any fees, as determined from time to time by 
Council, have been paid in full; and 
 (b) evidence of ownership of the shopping trolley is 
provided to the satisfaction of the Authorised Officer.
(1 1) Any impounded shopping trolley not claimed by the owner 
within the time specified on the notice of impoundment or 
within 14 days of the impounding, where the owner of the 
trolley cannot be ascertained, may be disposed of by an 
Authorised Officer.
126. Footpath Trading Policy
(1) The Footpath Trading Policy is incorporated into this  
Local Law.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit, on Council Land:
 (a) occupy; 
 (b) place any item or thing; 
 (c) construct or erect any structure or anything; or
 (d) remove or interfere with any structure or thing.
(3) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a 
requirement of the Footpath Trading Policy imposed on 
them is guilty of an offence.
(4) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a 
condition of a Permit is guilty of an offence.
127. Obstructions
(1) A person must not, without a Permit:
 (a) place any item or thing or attach any structure, item or 
thing, on Council Land that creates an obstruction; or
 (b) obstruct or restrict the use of any Road, footpath or 
Council Land by any means.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit, attach any structure, 
item or thing that overhangs, is on, or is above any Road or 
any other Council Land.
128. Repairing Vehicles
(1) A person must not on any Road or Council Land service, 
paint or dismantle any Motor Vehicle. 
(2) A person must not on any Road or Council Land repair any 
Motor Vehicle, except where necessary to enable  
that Motor Vehicle to be removed.
129. Consumption of Liquor
(1) A person must not in a Public Place or within a Motor 
Vehicle that is in a Public Place, without a Permit:
 (a) consume any Liquor; or
 (b) have in their possession or control any Liquor  
other than Liquor in a sealed container.
(2) Sub-clause (1) does not apply in such places as may  
for the time being be:
 (a) licensed premises within the meaning of the Liquor 
Control Reform Act 1998; 
 (b) an area in which the consumption of Liquor is permitted 
in accordance with a licence granted  
under the Liquor Control Reform Act 1998 or  
this Local Law; or
 
===== PAGE 32 =====
30 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
 (c) an area in which Council has issued a Permit for  
the consumption of Liquor.
(3) If an Authorised Officer believes on reasonable grounds that 
a person is contravening or has contravened sub-clause (1), 
the Authorised Officer may direct the person to seal any 
container or dispose of the contents  
of any unsealed container.
(4) A person who fails to obey a direction of an Authorised 
Officer under sub-clause (3) is guilty of an offence.
130. Mobile Cranes
A person must not, without a Permit, place, leave standing or 
use a crane, travel tower, boom, hydraulic arm, lift, tackle or any 
other machine on or over a Road or Council Land.
131. Hoarding, Scaffolding and Overhead  
Protective Awning
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, erect any hoarding, 
scaffolding, protective barrier or like structure on a Road, 
Public Place or Council Land.
(2)  A person must not, without a Permit, erect any hoarding, 
scaffolding, fencing, temporary fencing or like structure on 
the boundary of private land on which building works is 
being, or is to be, carried out. 
(3) A person must comply with any requirements imposed  
on that person in the Procedure and Protocol Manual.
(4)  Council may prescribe any requirements in relation to the 
requirements of hoarding, scaffolding, protective barriers or 
like structures including the nature and form, coverings, 
materials, location and maintenance. 
132. Bulk Rubbish and Storage Containers Left  
on Roads
A person must not, without a Permit, place, leave or permit  
to be left any:
 (a) bulk rubbish container on a Road or Council Land;
 (b) shipping or other storage container on a Road or 
Council Land; or 
 (c) thing that encroaches on or obstructs the free use  
of a Road or Council Land or that reduces the breadth 
or confines the limits of a Road or Council Land.
133. Clothing Bins
A person must not, without a Permit, place a clothing bin on 
Council Land or on a Road.
134. Unregistered, Abandoned and Obstructing Vehicles
(1) A person must not, on a Road, Public Place or parking area 
vested in or under the control of Council, place any 
unregistered Motor Vehicle or abandon or cause to be 
abandoned any Motor Vehicle.
(2) Council may impound any abandoned or unregistered 
Motor Vehicle found on any Road or in any Public Place  
or parking area vested in or under the control of Council  
in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
(3)  A Council may move or impound any vehicle that is causing 
an unlawful obstruction, or that is unlawfully parked or left 
standing.
135. Parking Permits
(1) A person who lives in an area in which a residential parking 
permit scheme operates may make an application to 
Council for a residential parking permit. 
(2) A person who has been allocated a residential parking 
permit must not sell, hire out, lease, license or lend to 
another person or offer to sell, hire out, lease, license or lend 
that residential parking permit to any other person. 
(3) A person must not purchase, hire, lease, license or receive, 
or offer to purchase, hire, lease, license or receive a 
residential parking permit from a person who has been 
allocated a residential parking permit.
(4) The owner and occupier of land on which an advertisement 
is displayed for the sale, hire, offer for purchase or offer for 
hire of a parking permit is guilty  
of an offence.
(5) A person must not:
 (a) forge or counterfeit a parking permit; 
 (b) use a forged or counterfeit parking permit; or
 (c) contravene or fail to comply with the conditions  
of use of a residential parking permit.
136. Filming 
A person must not, without a Permit, occupy or allow the 
occupation of any Road or Council Land for the purposes of 
filming for commercial purposes or public exhibition or for the 
placement of any equipment associated with such activity.
137. Toy Vehicles
(1) For the purpose of this clause a “wheeled recreational 
vehicle” means any mini bike, trail bike, motor bike, motor 
scooter, go-cart, Segway or other vehicle propelled by a 
motor that is normally used for recreational or transport 
purposes but does not include a motorised wheelchair  
or electric bicycle.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit, use, or permit a person 
to use, a wheeled recreation vehicle on Council Land or a 
footpath. 

===== PAGE 33 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
31
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 1 1 –  
Street Selling, 
Collections and 
Distributions
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 34 =====
32 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
138. Itinerant Trading
(1) A person must not, without a Permit:
 (a) erect or place on any Council Land or in any Public 
Place a Vehicle, caravan, trailer, table, stall or other 
similar structure for the purpose of selling any Goods; 
 (b) sell or attempt to sell any Goods from a property, Road, 
Council Land or Public Place adjacent to a Road, to any 
person who is on a property, Road, Council Land or 
Public Place;
 (c) have any Good, object or thing on any Council Land or 
any Public Place for sale, hire, transport or use.
(2) Sub-clause (1) does not apply to: 
 (a) newspapers or magazines that are being home 
delivered; or 
 (b) the home delivery of Goods purchased at another 
location or online.
139. Street Appeals
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, in a Public Place, 
solicit or collect money, gifts or subscriptions for any 
purpose or cause or authorise another person to do so.
(2) Council may exempt any person, class of person or any 
particular collection activity from requiring a Permit.
140. Street Promotions
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, on any Road, Council 
Land or Public Place: 
 (a) hand out a document that advertises a political party, 
commercial event or venture, or is of a fundraising 
nature;
 (b) deliver any public address with or without any sound 
amplification equipment;
 (c) spruik, tout or solicit the sale of any Goods;
 (d) conduct any concert, public assembly or public  
event; or
 (e) participate in any promotional activity.
141. Processions, Street Festivals and Street Parties
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, hold, allow to be held 
or participate in or on a Road:
 (a) a street party; or
 (b) a street festival or procession.
===== PAGE 35 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
33
Par t 12  –  
Protection of the 
Amenity of the 
Municipal District
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 36 =====
34 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Division 1 – General
142. Property Numbers
(1) Council may from time to time allocate a number  
to an allotment and may from time to time allocate a 
different number to an allotment or otherwise change  
the numbering.
(2) The owner or occupier of an allotment to which a number 
has been allocated by Council must mark the allotment with 
the number in a form that is legible, visible and clear of 
vegetation and other obstructions and of a minimum size of 
80 mm.
(3) The owner of occupier of an allotment must ensure  
that all numbers marking the allotment are:
 (a) made of durable materials;
 (b) kept in a good state of repair;
 (c) renewed as often as may be necessary; and
 (d) located or positioned in accordance with a  
direction by Council.
(4) A person must not display a number on an allotment unless 
the number has been allocated to the allotment  
by the Council.
143. Camping and Camping on Council Land or a Road
(1) A person must not have more than one (1) caravan on 
residential land.
(2) A person must not occupy or allow another person to 
occupy a caravan, tent or other thing on residential land for 
more than three (3) weeks in a calendar year.
(3) A person must not, without a Permit, camp on Council 
Land, a Public Place or on any Road in a tent, caravan, 
Motor Vehicle or other temporary or makeshift structure 
unless their is within a caravan park licensed under the 
Residential Tenancies Act 1997.
(4) A person must not leave any personal goods or effects  
on Council Land, Public Place or any Road as part of  
any camp.
144. Noise
(1) The owner, occupier or person in charge of land must  
not cause or allow noise to emanate from that land that 
detrimentally affects the amenity of the area.
(2) A person must not: 
 (a) on or adjacent to any Road; or
 (b) in a Motor Vehicle or Vehicle on or adjacent to  
any Road,
 allow noise to emanate that detrimentally affects the amenity 
of the area.
(3) An owner, occupier or person in charge of land or a  
Motor Vehicle must not:
 (a) install or place (or allow that to occur) on that land  
or in a Motor Vehicle an audible alarm that when 
activated is audible outside the land or Motor  
Vehicle for more than 10 consecutive minutes; or 
 (b) allow an audible alarm installed on land or in a Motor 
Vehicle to be audible outside the land or Motor Vehicle 
for more than;
  (i) 10 consecutive minutes; or
  (ii) two (2) or more separate periods, each cumulatively 
amounting to 10 minutes or more within a period of 
one (1) hour.
(4) Sub-clause (3) does not apply where the noise is from a 
different audible alarm or a location that is different from the 
earlier occasions, or where the noise occurred after the 
audible alarm had been manually re-set and (in the case of 
an audible alarm on land) there is displayed on the land, in a 
prominent location near the front door, details of the name 
and telephone number of a person (not at the land) who 
can and will deactivate the audible alarm to prevent a 
breach of this Local Law.
(5) A person must not deliver to or pick up goods from  
land used for commercial purposes if noise from that activity 
is audible in a habitable room of any residential dwelling 
between:
 (a) 10pm and 7am, Monday to Saturday; or
 (b) 10pm and 9am, Sunday or a public holiday.
(6) The owner, occupier and person in charge of land  
used for a commercial purpose must not cause or allow 
amplified speech or music to be audible outside the  
land unless each speaker is:
 (a) within the building on the land; 
 (b) not less than three (3) metres from any entrance to  
the building; 
 
===== PAGE 37 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
35
 (c) directed away from any wall (that is less than 15 metres 
from the device), external window or entrance to the 
building; and 
 (d) operating at a level that does not exceed 65 dB  
(LA max) two (2) metres from the façade of a building 
adjoining a Road.
(7) Without limiting the generality of sub-clause (1), any noise:
 (a) emitted from land, other than residential land, from any 
item at any time that is specified as a prohibited time in 
respect of that item in Table 2; and
 (b) that noise can be heard in a habitable room in any 
residential dwelling,
 is deemed to be detrimental to the amenity of the area 
unless it is emitted in the case of an emergency.
145. Advertisements
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, write, paint, stencil, 
place or affix any letter, figure, Graffiti, device, poster, sign or 
advertisement upon any:
 (a) Road; 
 (b) Council Land; 
 (c) Building, structure, fixture or any other thing on a Road 
or Council Land; or
 (d) Motor Vehicle, Vehicle, instrument, machinery, device, 
tool or other item on a Road or Council Land. 
(2) Any person who allows, authorises or engages another person 
to do anything in sub-clause (1) is guilty of an offence.
(3) A person must not, without a Permit, erect and display any 
real estate sign on or above a verandah, over a footpath or 
on the façade of a Building on the boundary of a footpath.
(4) An Authorised Officer may remove, or direct to be removed 
and disposed of, any letter, figure, Graffiti, device, poster, 
sign or advertisement in contravention of sub-clause  
(1) or (3). 
Table 2
Group Items Prohibited times
1. A motor vehicle (except a vehicle moving in or out of premises), 
lawn mower or other grass-cutting device and any equipment or 
appliance not falling within Group 2 having an internal combustion 
engine
Monday to Friday: before 7am and  
after 8pm 
Weekends and public holidays:  
before 8am and after 8pm
2. An electric power tool, chain or circular saw, gas or air 
compressor, pneumatic power tool, hammer and any other 
impacting tool, grinding equipment
Monday to Friday: before 7am and  
after 8pm
Weekends and public holidays:  
before 9am and after 8pm
3. A musical instrument and any electrical amplified sound 
reproducing equipment including a stereogram, radio,  
television and public address system
Monday to Thursday: before 7am  
and after 10pm
Friday: before 7am and after 11pm
Saturday and public holidays:  
before 9am and after 11pm
Sunday: before 9am and after 10pm
4. Any electric equipment or appliance not falling within Group 2  
or Group 3, including electric gardening equipment
Monday to Friday: before 7am and  
after 8pm 
Weekends and public holidays:  
before 9am and after 8pm
===== PAGE 38 =====
36 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
146. Mobile Billboards
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, place a mobile 
billboard on:
 (a) a Road, Road-related area or Council Land; or
 (b) any other location likely to interfere with the vision  
of a pedestrian or driver.
(2) For the purposes of sub-clause (1) a mobile billboard  
is an advertising sign that is specifically constructed to  
be part of a Motor Vehicle or pulled along on a trailer  
by a Motor Vehicle.
(3) If a mobile billboard is placed in contravention of  
sub-clause (1) each of the following persons are guilty  
of an offence:
 (a) the person who is responsible for the placement, siting 
or distribution of the advertising sign including, without 
limitation, the person who engages another whether as 
an employee or agent to place, site or distribute the 
advertising sign; and 
 (b) the person who is the promoter of the premises, 
property, business, event or activity to which the 
advertising sign relates.
147. Incinerators and Fires
(1) A person must not set alight or allow any Fire to remain 
alight on land or in the open air without a Permit.
(2) Sub-clause (1) does not apply if:
 (a) that person is a person authorised by a Public Body 
engaged in fire protection measures for or on behalf  
of that Public Body; or
 (b) the Fire is in a Barbecue.
(3) An owner, occupier or person in charge of land must  
not allow a Barbecue to discharge ash or smoke that is 
dangerous to health or offensive to any other person.
148. Chimneys
The owner and occupier of any land must not cause or 
knowingly allow or suffer smoke to be emitted from a Chimney 
that is a nuisance.
149. Directive Powers
(1) An Authorised Officer may direct a person to extinguish a 
Fire where the Authorised Officer believes on reasonable 
grounds that the Fire is causing a nuisance to another 
person or is contrary to this Local Law.
(2) Any person who does not comply with the direction of an 
Authorised Officer in sub-clause (1) or the direction of a 
member of Victoria Police or member of a fire brigade in 
relation to a Fire is guilty of an offence.
150. Unsightly Premises
(1) For the purpose of this section the word ‘land’ includes any 
nature strip.
(2) The owner and occupier of land must not cause or  
allow the land to be kept in a condition that is unsightly  
or detrimental to the amenity of the area.
(3) The owner and occupier of land must ensure that:
 (a) all necessary steps are taken to prevent Fire on  
that land and minimise the possibility of the spread  
of Fire from that land; and 
 (b) the land is kept free of undergrowth, scrub bracken, 
ferns, weeds, stubble or grass (whether alive or dead 
exceeding 30 cm in height and whether standing or not 
standing) and any other material or substance likely to 
assist in the spread of Fire.
(4) Without affecting the operation of clause 11, where Council 
is of the opinion that any land contains:
 (a) unconstrained rubbish; 
 (b) an excavation that is not part of current works; 
 (c) waste material; or
 (d) any material or substance on premises that constitutes 
or is likely to constitute a Fire hazard,
 the Council may serve a Notice to Comply on the  
owner and occupier of the land for the cleaning up, 
screening, removal or disposal of any material or substance 
on that land.
151. Fencing of Vacant Land 
(1) If Council is of the opinion that vacant land is unsightly  
or waste is being dumped on the land or the land is 
dangerous, it may, by notice in writing, direct the owner  
or occupier of any vacant land to erect, repair, replace  
or modify fencing enclosing the vacant land. 
(2) A notice under this clause may specify: 
 (a)  the material with which any fencing to be erected must 
be constructed;
 (b) the material to be applied to the fencing to restrict  
the view into the vacant land; and 
 (c)  the height and other dimensions of the fencing  
to be erected. 
(3) The owner or occupier of any land must comply with a 
notice directed to that person under clause 11 and must 
perform any work specified in the notice within the time 
specified in the notice. 
===== PAGE 39 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
37
152. Securing and Fencing Dilapidated Land 
(1) Council may, by notice in writing, direct the owner or 
occupier of land on which any dilapidated dwelling  
exists to: 
 (a) secure or better secure the dwelling; or 
 (b) fence the land. 
(2) The owner or occupier of any land must comply with a 
notice directed to that person under clause 11 and must 
perform any work specified in the notice within the time 
specified in the notice.
153. Vermin and Noxious Weeds
The owner and occupier of land must ensure that the land and 
nature strip adjacent to that land do not contain blackberries or 
a weed that is a noxious weed within the meaning defined in the 
Catchment and Land Protection Act 1994.
154. Dangerous Land
The owner and occupier of land must not allow the land to be 
kept in a manner that is dangerous or likely to cause danger to 
life or property.
155. Motor Vehicles and Machinery
(1) Unless in accordance with the Planning Scheme  
or a Permit, a person must not use land for:
 (a) the storage of old or second-hand Motor Vehicles,  
motor boats, machinery, goods or materials; or
 (b) dismantling or breaking up of Motor Vehicles, motor 
boats, machinery, goods or materials.
(2) Unless in accordance with a Permit or the Planning 
Scheme, a person must not use land for the repairing  
or servicing of any Motor Vehicle (except one that is 
registered under the Road Safety Act 1986 to that address) 
or motor boat.
(3) A person must not in the process of repairing or  
servicing a Motor Vehicle or motor boat perform any  
act in a manner that disturbs the peace and quiet of  
any person in an adjoining dwelling.
156. Overhanging and Encroaching Trees
(1) The owner and occupier of land must not allow any tree, 
hedge, plant or vegetation of any kind growing on that land 
to:
 (a) overhang any Road at a height less than two and  
a half (2.5) metres; 
 (b) grow in such a manner so that it obstructs the view  
of a Motor Vehicle, sign or signal on a Road by any 
person using that Road; or
 (c) obstruct a footpath.
157. Dilapidated Buildings
(1) The owner and occupier of land on which there is a Building 
must not allow or permit the Building to be dilapidated.
(2) Where a Building is dilapidated, Council may serve a Notice 
to Comply on the owner and occupier of the land specifying 
the works required to correct the dilapidated state, or that 
the Building be removed or demolished.
===== PAGE 40 =====
38 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Part 1 3  –  
Building Activity
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 41 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
39
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
158. Building Definitions
In this Part:
“Building Activity” includes:
(a) any act or thing done or to be done on, over or   
across any land, Road or Council Land for the   
purpose of or in the course of constructing,    
repairing, demolishing, pulling down or removing   
any building;
(b) the erection or removal of any kind of scaffolding   
and the excavation and carrying away of earth, soil,   
clay, rock or material of any kind on, over or across   
any land, Road or Council Land;
(c)  the moving about of any building equipment or   
material and any rubble, waste or second-hand   
building materials on, over or across any land, Road   
or Council Land; or
(d)  any work or action incidental to the matters referred   
to in paragraph (a), (b) and (c) conducted on, over or   
across any land, Road or Council Land.
“Building Activity Hours” means the period of time  
between 7 am and 6 pm on any week day or the period  
of time between 9 am and 6 pm on a Saturday.
“Repair” includes the re-construction or renewal of any part  
of an existing building for the purpose of its maintenance.
159. Building Activity Hours
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, carry out any Building 
Activity on land or use any machinery or device ancillary to 
Building Activity on or over or across a Road or Council 
Land:
 (a) on a public holiday;
 (b) a Sunday; or
 (c) on any other day outside of Building Activity Hours.
(2) Sub-clause (1) does not apply to a natural person who:
 (a) is an owner of the land on which Building Activity is 
being carried out; and
 (b)  the Building Activity does not require a building permit; 
and
 (c) is not a registered builder.
160. Dust Control
(1) A person carrying out any Building Activity, landscaping  
or gardening works on land must ensure that dust or  
spoil is not deposited on any Road. 
(2) A person carrying out any Building Activity, landscaping  
or gardening works on land must ensure that dust, spoil  
or other material does not escape from the land to be  
a nuisance. 
(3) A person carrying out any Building Activity, landscaping  
or gardening works on land must ensure that any rubbish, 
waste, water, slime or other debris does not escape from the 
land. 
(4) A person instructed by an Authorised Officer to rectify, clean 
up or remedy the dust or spoil referred to in sub-clauses (1) 
to (3) must immediately rectify the situation to the 
satisfaction of the Authorised Officer.
161. Spoil from Building Sites
(1) An owner or occupier of land or a building contractor 
responsible for Building Activity on that land must not allow 
a Motor Vehicle to leave the land on which building works 
are being carried out and enter an adjoining Road unless 
the wheels and tyres of that Motor Vehicle are clean and 
free from soil, earth, clay or other debris. 
(2) An owner or occupier and building contractor responsible 
for Building Activity on that land who allows by consent, 
neglect, omission or direction the matters in sub-clause (1) 
to occur is guilty of an offence.
162. Building Material
A person must not, without a Permit, place any building 
material, rubble, plant, equipment or portable toilet on any Road 
or Council Land.
===== PAGE 42 =====
40 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Part 1 4  –  
Tree 
Protection
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 43 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
41
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
163. Tree Protection
(1) In this Part:
“Damage” means to lop, prune or undertake Works near a tree 
such that the tree is no longer viable in terms of health, structure 
or stability.
“Prune” means to remove any branches of a tree that are 
greater than 50 mm in diameter at the point of contact with the 
larger branches or the trunk.
“Significant Tree” means a tree or palm:
 (a) with a trunk circumference of 140 cm or greater 
measured at 1.4 m above its base;
 (b) with a total circumference of all its trunks of 140 cm  
or greater measured at 1.4 m above its base;
 (c) with a trunk circumference of 180 cm or greater 
measured at its base; or
 (d) with a total circumference of all its trunks of 180 cm  
or greater measured at its base.
Note: See Figure 1 and 2. 
“Tree Protection Zone” means the area surrounding a tree’s 
trunk that contains the roots that are essential to the tree’s 
continued health, vigour and stability, being a circular area 
below the tree extending at equal distances from the tree base 
in all directions, the radius of which is 12 times the trunk 
diameter measured at 1.4 m above its base.
Note: See Figure 3. 
“Works” includes building, trenching, digging, compacting, 
excavating, filling or storing materials and equipment whether by 
mechanical or manual methods.
(2) Unless in accordance with a Permit a person must not:
 (a) remove, kill or Damage a Significant Tree; (these actions 
result in the killing or the necessary removal of the tree 
and therefore are the most serious offending)
 (b) lop, prune or trim a Significant Tree; (the lopping or 
pruning of a tree that does not result in the loss of the 
tree) 
 (c) carry out any Works within the Tree Protection Zone  
of a Significant Tree; or (the carrying out of Works may 
or may not result in the death of the tree)
 (d) direct, authorise or allow a person to do any of (a), (b) or 
(c) above.
 Note: See Figure 3.
(3) Sub-clause (2) does not apply to:
 (a) a person whose actions are authorised under a Planning 
Permit under the Planning Scheme;
 (b) a person whose actions are required by any other 
legislation or by any other statutory authority; or
 (c) a person acting in accordance with an instruction  
or direction from an Authorised Officer.
(4) If a tree is interfered with in any of the circumstances 
specified in breach of sub-clause (2) (having regard to 
sub-clause (3), the owner of land on which the tree is 
located is guilty of an offence, whether or not the person 
who actually contravened sub-clause (2) is identified or 
prosecuted, unless the owner can prove that the 
interference was undertaken by another person without the 
knowledge of the owner.
(5) A person must not, without a Permit, remove, kill, Damage, 
lop, Prune or trim a Significant Tree that is overhanging 
property owned or occupied by that person.
(6) In deciding whether to grant a Permit under this clause 
Council must take into consideration the matters specified 
in the Procedure and Protocol Manual.
===== PAGE 44 =====
42 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Figure 1: Diagram illustrating how to measure a circumference of the base of different shaped trees.
Figure 2: Diagram illustrating where and how to measure the circumference at 1.4m above ground level.
Figure 3: Diagram illustrating how to determine the Tree Protection Zone.
Single Trunk
Single Trunk Multi-trunked
Short Trunk Flared Trunk Multi-trunked
Represents the Tree Protection Zone. 
Works are not allowed without a Permit 
in the Tree Protection Zone.

===== PAGE 45 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
43
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 15  –  
Animals  
and Birds
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 46 =====
44 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Table 3
Houses Units, townhouses, flats  
and apartments
Cats
Cats under 3 months
2
12
2
2
Dogs
Dogs under 3 months
2
12
1
1
Domestic birds (budgie/canary or similar) 5 2
Domestic mice 6 3
Rabbits or guinea pigs 10 2
Cold water and tropical fish unlimited unlimited
164. Application of Part 
This Part does not apply to land:
 (a) on which a pet shop is located; or 
 (b) on which an animal hospital or veterinary  
practice is located,
 if the use of the land for this purpose is permitted  
under the Planning Scheme applicable to that land.
165. Conditions Under Which Animals May be Kept
(1) The owner and occupier of land must not, without a Permit, 
keep or allow to be kept on that land at any time no more in 
number for each type of Animal than is set out in Table 3.
(2) Sub-clause (1) does not apply where a Planning Permit has 
been obtained for the use of land for the purposes  
of Animal boarding or breeding.
(3) A Permit may be granted for the keeping of any Animals not 
listed in Table 3 of sub-clause (1):
 (a) if the Animals are to be part of a display for education,  
 cultural or historical purposes; or 
 (b) if the Animal is not prohibited and in accordance  
 with the requirements and criteria in the Keeping of  
 Animals Policy.
166. Keeping of Animals Policy
(1) The Keeping of Animals Policy is incorporated into this 
Local Law.
(2) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a 
requirement for the keeping of Animals in the Keeping of 
Animals Policy imposed on that person is guilty of an 
offence.
(3) The owner and occupier of land must not keep or allow to 
be kept on that land at any time an Animal specified in the 
Keeping of Animals Policy.
(4) A person who fails to comply with a condition of a Permit is 
guilty of an offence.
167. Animal Noises
(1) The owner and occupier of land where any Animal is kept 
must ensure that the keeping of the Animal does not create 
a nuisance.
(2) An Animal creates a nuisance for the purpose of  
sub-clause (1) if it creates a noise by any means and 
unreasonably interferes with the peace, comfort or 
convenience of any person.
===== PAGE 47 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
45
168. Animal Excrement
(1) A person in charge of any Animal in a Public Place must 
immediately remove that Animal’s excrement and dispose of 
it as litter in a lawful manner.
(2) A person in charge of any Animal in a Public Place must 
carry a Litter Device suitable to clean up and remove any 
excrement left by their Animal and must produce  
that Litter Device upon request of an Authorised Officer. 
(3) A person who fails to produce a Litter Device when 
requested to do so is guilty of an offence. 
169. Wasp Nest(s) and Bee Swarm(s) to be Removed
The owner and occupier of land must, upon becoming aware of 
the existence of a wasp nest or bee swarm on the land or at the 
direction of an Authorised Officer:
 (a) take steps to cause the wasp nest or bee swarm  
to be removed; and
 (b) arrange for the removal to be undertaken by an 
appropriate contractor.
170. Pest Animals
(1) A person must not keep, store or allow to be kept or stored 
on land any prepared food for consumption by an Animal 
unless the food is stored in a manner secure from all vermin, 
feral and stray Animals.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit, feed or encourage the 
presence of feral Animals, stray Animals or foxes nor allow 
any such Animals access to prepared food stored or issued 
to Animals.
171. Fencing of Dogs
The owner and occupier of land on which a dog is kept must 
ensure that all boundary fencing is adequate to keep the dog 
wholly within the boundaries of the land.
172. Feeding of Animals and Birds
(1) A person must not feed or leave food for an Animal or bird 
in a Public Place.
(2)  Nothing in sub-clause (1) applies to any person feeding  
or leaving food for an Animal that is registered under the 
Domestic Animals Act 1994 and under the effective 
control of that person.
===== PAGE 48 =====
46 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 1 6  –  
Sanitation
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 49 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
47
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
173. Supply and Use of Waste Receptacles
(1) The owner and occupier of land must:
 (a) ensure that an appropriate receptacle for the collection 
of waste is available on the land for the collection and 
containment of waste;
 (b) deposit or cause to be deposited in an appropriate 
receptacle only waste generated from the land; 
 (c) maintain all waste receptacles and any area of the land 
in which waste receptacles are located in a  
clean and sanitary condition; and
 (d) not deposit commercial or residential waste in  
Council street bins.
(2) The owner or owners corporation of commercial  
and residential land on which there is more than one 
premises or dwelling must:
 (a) construct on the land an area for storing waste 
receptacles; 
 (b) ensure that the area constructed is screened  
from view and maintained in a clean and sanitary 
condition; and 
 (c) ensure that the area is used to store waste receptacles.
(3) A person must not remove an Approved Receptacle  
from the land to which it has been assigned.
(4) A person must not damage or destroy an Approved 
Receptacle. 
174. Domestic and Recycling Waste Collection
(1) The owner and occupier of land to which Council  
provides a domestic waste collection service or a domestic 
recycling collection service must only use  
an Approved Receptacle. 
(2) The owner and occupier of land to which Council  
provides a domestic waste collection service or a domestic 
recycling collection service must:
 (a) ensure the Approved Receptacle and contents does 
not exceed 60 kg; 
 (aa) only deposit general waste in the Approved Receptacle 
for general waste and only deposit recyclable materials 
in the Approved Receptacle for recycling materials;
 (b) not place in an Approved Receptacle commercial or 
industrial waste or use an Approved Receptacle for any 
other purpose other than for the collection and 
containment of domestic waste or domestic recycling; 
 (c) place an Approved Receptacle for collection at the 
front of the land adjacent to the kerb;
 (d) ensure that the lid is secure and that waste cannot spill 
onto the ground; 
 (e) ensure that if waste has spilled onto the ground that the 
waste is collected and deposited back into the 
Approved Receptacle; 
 (f) ensure that the Approved Receptacle is returned  
to the land on the day of collection; and
 (g) comply with the additional requirements specified  
in the Procedures and Protocol Manual.
(3)  If Council has given notice of a collection of Hard Waste, the 
owner or occupier of land may place or allow to be placed 
at the front of the land in a neat, tidy, safe and orderly 
manner Hard Waste for collection by Council.
(4)  Hard Waste placed out for collection becomes the property 
of Council or such person as Council may specify.
(5)  A person must not deposit or allow to be deposited  
any Hard Waste contrary to the notice given pursuant  
to sub-clause (3).
(6)  A person must not interfere with or remove any Hard Waste 
unless:
 (a) it is a person who has a Permit to do so;
 (b) it is Council;
 (c) the person is authorised by Council; or
 (d) it is the person who deposited the Hard Waste.
175. Trade Waste Bins and Hoppers
(1)  The owner and occupier of land on which a waste 
receptacle used for the collection and storage of 
commercial or industrial waste must:
 (a) construct on the land an area to store the waste 
receptacle that is supplied with reticulated water so that 
the waste receptacle can be adequately cleaned; 
 (b) ensure that the area constructed is screened from view, 
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and fenced 
in such a manner to deny access to the public;
 (c) ensure the waste receptacle is available for collection on 
the day of collection and returned to the land after 
collection;
 (d) ensure when the waste receptacle is on a Road or 
Council Land for collection:
  (i) the lid is closed and waste is not able to spill  
onto the ground;
  (ii) the waste receptacle is not in an unclean and 
offensive condition; and
  (iii) any waste that has spilled onto the ground that  
the waste is collected and deposited back into  
the waste receptacle; and 
 (e) comply with the additional requirements specified  
in the Procedures and Protocol Manual.
===== PAGE 50 =====
48 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
(2) A person collecting and removing any commercial or 
industrial waste must not: 
 (a) collect and remove the waste other than between  
the hours of 7am and 10pm on Monday to Saturday 
(inclusive) and between the hours of 9am and 10pm 
(inclusive) on Sunday and a public holiday; and
 (b) use a vehicle from which liquid waste water is able  
to leak onto the Road. 
(3) For the purpose of sub-clause (2) above, the person 
collecting and removing commercial or industrial waste in 
contravention of sub-clause (2) includes the driver of the 
vehicle and the employer of the driver of the vehicle. 
176. Council Waste Acceptance Facilities
(1) A person must not, without a Permit, deposit any waste in or 
at, or enter any Council Waste Depot unless:
 (a) the fee, if any, has been paid;
 (b) the waste is deposited where directed by Council notice, 
an Authorised Officer or a member of Council staff 
acting in the course of that member’s duties;
 (c) the waste is waste approved by Council for deposit; and
 (d) during the hours the Council Waste Depot is open  
to the public.
(2) A person must not, without a Permit, remove from a Council 
Waste Depot any waste or material of any kind that has 
been deposited or left there.
(3) A person must, while in any Council Waste Depot, obey:
 (a) a lawful order or direction of any Authorised Officer  
or member of Council staff acting in the course of  
that member’s duties; and
 (b) any sign authorised by Council. 
177. Directive Powers 
(1) An Authorised Officer may direct and require a person who 
deposits waste or places a waste receptacle or allows it to 
remain in place contrary to:
 (a) this Local Law; or
 (b) a Permit,
 to immediately remove the waste or waste receptacle  
(as the case may be).

===== PAGE 51 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
49
City of Stonnington General Local Law 2018 (No.1)
Part 1 7  –  
Permits
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 52 =====
50 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
178. Application for a Permit
(1) An application for a Permit must be in the form prescribed 
by Council from time to time and must be accompanied by 
the appropriate fee, as determined by Council from time to 
time.
(2) Council may prescribe the form for an application for a 
Permit and specify the requirements for an application  
for a Permit and the matters to be considered or to be 
applied in the grant of a Permit in the Procedure and 
Protocol Manual. 
(3) Council may require a person making an application for a 
Permit to give public notice that will entitle any person to 
make a submission and to be heard.
(4) Council may require additional information to enable an 
application for a Permit to be properly considered and for 
the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions 
of this Local Law.
(5) Council may grant a Permit with or without conditions or 
refuse to grant a Permit. 
179. Consideration of Applications
(1) In considering an application for a Permit, Council must 
consider as appropriate: 
 (a) any policy or guideline relating to the subject matter  
of the application for the Permit;
 (b) any written objection or written submission received  
in respect of the application;
 (c) any written comment made in respect of the application 
by any Public Body or community organisation; 
 (d) any matters specified in the Procedure and  
Protocol Manual; and
 (e) any other relevant matter.
(2) Where the applicant is not the owner of the land that is the 
subject of the  application, the consent of the owner of the 
land to the application must be provided to Council with the 
application.
180. Permits May be Conditional
(1) A Permit may be issued with or without conditions including, 
but not limited to, conditions relating to:
 (a) the payment of a fee, charge, fare or rent;
 (b) a standard to be applied;
 (c) a time limit to be applied either specifying the duration, 
commencement or completion time or date;
 (d) the issue of the permit subject to the happening of an 
event;
 (e) the rectification, remedying or restoration of a situation 
or circumstance;
 (f) a condition that a specified thing is to be done or not to 
be done to the satisfaction of Council or an Authorised 
Officer;
 (g) the amendment or cancellation of a specified Permit 
prior the Permit coming into effect;
 (h) a Permit for a use for a specified time:
  (i) that any use or development carried out on the land 
under the Permit is to cease or be removed (as the 
case may be) at the end of the specified time; and
  (ii) that the land is to be restored to a specified  
state at the end of the specified time;
  (iii) the consent of the owner of land where the applicant 
is not the owner of that land;
 (i) the granting of some other Permit that may be required 
by Council whether under this Local  
Law or otherwise; and
 (j) any other matter as considered appropriate.
(2) Council may by resolution determine a fee, charge, fare  
or rent in relation to any property, undertaking, goods, 
service or other act, matter or thing for the application, 
consideration, grant, renewal, suspension or cancellation of 
a Permit.
(3) Council may prescribe, regulate or determine the manner in 
which an application may be made for a Permit and the 
conditions on which a Permit may be granted, any service 
performed or supplied or the supply of any goods or 
information.
===== PAGE 53 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
51
181. Power to Amend Conditions
(1) Council may, during the currency of a Permit, amend  
the conditions of a Permit if it considers it appropriate  
to do so.
(2) In considering whether it is appropriate to amend the 
conditions on the Permit, Council must have regard to:
 (a) the purposes for which the conditions were imposed;
 (b) whether those purposes are adequately achieved by the 
current conditions;
 (c) the impact of the proposed amendment on the  
Permit holder and any relevant third parties; and
 (d) any other relevant matter.
If Council proposes to amend the conditions on a Permit,  
it must:
 (a) provide the permit holder an opportunity to make 
submissions on whether the amendment should  
be made; and
 (b) take into account those submissions in deciding 
whether to amend the permit.
182. Security Bonds
(1) In deciding to grant a Permit, Council may require the 
applicant to lodge with Council a security bond, bank 
guarantee or similar surety in an amount and in a manner as 
Council considers reasonable in the circumstances.
(2) Council may use a security bond, bank guarantee or other 
surety to remedy a breach of that Permit, Local Law or 
repair any damage caused by any works under a Permit.
(3) Upon the completion of any required remediation works, 
Council must release any remaining security bond, bank 
guarantee or other surety.
183. Register of Permits
Council must keep a register of Permits. 
184. Duration of Permits
Except where expressly stated in the Permit, the Permit operates 
from the date it is issued and expires one year after the date of 
issue or earlier if expressly provided in the Permit or if 
determined by Council.
185. Correction of Permits
(1) Council may correct a Permit issued if that Permit contains:
 (a) a clerical mistake or an error arising from any accident, 
slip or omission; or
 (b) a material miscalculation of figures or a material mistake 
in the description of any person, thing or property 
referred to in the Permit.
(2) Council must note the correction in the register of Permits.
186. Cancellation, Suspension or Amendment of Permits
(1) Council may cancel, suspend or amend any Permit at any 
time if:
 (a) it is requested to do so by the Permit holder; or
 (b) Council considers that there has been:
  (i) a material mis-statement or concealment of fact  
in relation to the application for the Permit;
  (ii) any material mistake in relation to the issue of  
the Permit; or
  (iii) any material change of circumstances that has 
occurred since the granting of the Permit;
 (c) Council believes that the continuance of the activity 
permitted by the Permit may result in a hazard, danger 
or inconvenience to any other person or property or be 
otherwise detrimental to the amenity of the area;
 (d) Council is satisfied that there has been a substantial 
failure to comply with a Permit condition or Notice to 
Comply relating to the Permit; or
 (e) the Permit holder defaults in any payment of a fee, 
charge, security bond, bank guarantee or similar surety 
required by the Permit.
(2) Council must note any cancellation, suspension or 
amendment of a Permit in the register of Permits.
(3) Prior to cancelling, suspending or amending a Permit, 
Council must:
 (a) provide the Permit holder an opportunity to make  
a submission on whether the Permit should be 
cancelled, suspended or amended; and
 (b) take into account the submission in deciding whether to 
amend the Permit.
===== PAGE 54 =====
52 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
187. Transferability of Permits
Unless otherwise stated in the Permit, a Permit is:
 (a) personal and authorises only the person named in  
the Permit to carry out the activity authorised; and
 (b) not transferable without the consent of Council.
188. Permit Issue and Refusal
(1) Wherever in this Local Law power is given to Council to 
issue, refuse to issue, suspend or cancel a Permit, such 
power may be exercised by an Authorised Officer.
(2) The power conferred in sub-clause (1) does not apply 
where: 
 (a) a written objection is received to the issuing of a Permit, 
in which case the application and objections must be 
referred to an Authorised Officer nominated by the Chief 
Executive Officer, Director or Council for consideration 
and determination; or 
 (b) where Council has issued or refused a Permit.
189. Exemptions
(1) Council may exempt any person or class of persons  
from the requirement to obtain a Permit, either generally or 
at specified times.
(2) Any person or class of persons specified in the  
Procedure and Protocols Manual may be  
exempt from the requirement to obtain a Permit.
190. Information
(1) A person must not obtain or attempt to obtain a Permit  
by knowingly making or causing to be made any false 
representation whether orally or in writing. 
(2) Any person must, when requested to do so, produce  
a Permit to:
 (a) an Authorised Officer; and
 (b) a member of Victoria Police or a member of the  
fire brigade.

===== PAGE 55 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
53
Part 1 8  –  
Fees, Charges 
and Costs
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 56 =====
54 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
191. Setting Fees and Charges
Council may, from time to time and by resolution determine  
a fee, charge, fare or rent in relation to any property, 
undertaking, goods, service or other act, matter or thing  
or the application, consideration, grant, renewal, suspension  
or cancellation of a Permit.
192. Differential or Structured Fees and Charges
In determining any fee, charge, fare or rent, Council may 
establish a system or structure of fees, charges, fares or rents 
including a minimum or maximum, specific fees, scales of fees 
according to the value of goods or services provided  
or project being assessed, if it considers it is appropriate 
to do so.
193. Waiver or Alteration to Fees and Charges
The Council may waive, reduce, alter or refund in whole or in 
part any fee, charge, fare or rent with or without conditions.
===== PAGE 57 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
55
Part 1 9  –  
Infringement 
Notices
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 58 =====
56 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
194. Purpose
The purpose of this Part is to provide for the issue of 
infringement notices for contraventions of this Local Law.
195. Infringement Notice
(1) An Authorised Officer may serve, or cause to be served, an 
infringement notice to a person who the Authorised Officer 
reasonably believes has contravened or failed to comply 
with this Local Law.
(2) An infringement notice may only be served to a person for a 
contravention of this Local Law if the offence is listed in the 
schedule to the Procedure and Protocol Manual.
(3) The infringement notice must specify the penalty (shown as 
Penalty Units) specified for that offence in the schedule to 
the Procedure and Protocol Manual. 

===== PAGE 59 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
57
Part 20  –  
Enforcement,  
Offences and 
Prosecutions
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 60 =====
58 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
196. Recovery of Costs
In addition to any penalty under the Act or this Local Law,  
any expense, damage or loss incurred by Council in 
consequence of a breach of this Local Law or in the 
prosecution of a breach of this Local Law must be paid  
by the person committing such a breach.
197. Offences
A person is guilty of an offence if the person: 
 (a) does something that a provision of this Local Law 
prohibits to be done or makes an offence;
 (b) fails to do something that a provision of this Local  
Law requires to be done; 
 (c) allows any act to occur by consent, neglect, omission  
or direction that is a contravention of this Local Law;
 (d) engages in activity without a current Permit where  
a provision of this Local Law requires that person 
to obtain a Permit before engaging in that activity;
 (e) breaches or fails to comply with a condition of a Permit 
issued under this Local Law; 
 (f) is the driver of a Motor Vehicle that is parked or left 
standing on Council Land as well as the registered 
owner of the Motor Vehicle (unless the owner of the 
Motor Vehicle complies with the operator onus 
provisions of Part 6AA of the Road Safety Act 1986).
198. General Penalties
(1) A person who is guilty of an offence against this Local  
law for which a specific penalty is not provided is liable  
to a penalty not exceeding 20 Penalty Units.
(2) In the case of a continuing offence a person is liable to a 
penalty not exceeding two (2) Penalty Units for each day 
after conviction for an offence during which the 
contravention continues.
199. Power to Impound 
(1) An Authorised Officer may seize and impound a Motor 
Vehicle, Vehicle, sign, Goods or any other item where there 
has been a contravention of this Local Law.
(2) As soon as practicable after impounding any Motor Vehicle, 
Vehicle, sign, Goods or any other item an Authorised Officer 
must, if the name and address of its owner is known, serve 
a notice of impoundment on the owner.
(3) Council may determine, from time to time, a fee that must be 
paid by the owner of any impounded Motor Vehicle, Vehicle, 
sign, Goods or any other item before Council is required to 
release the Motor Vehicle, Vehicle, sign, Goods or any other 
item. Any impounded Vehicle, sign or Goods may be 
claimed by its owner after the payment of the relevant fees.
(4) Any impounded Motor Vehicle, Vehicle, sign, Goods or any 
other item not claimed within the time specified on  
the notice of impoundment or within seven (7) days of the 
impounding may be disposed of by Council by tender or 
public auction, transferred to the Council Waste Depot or 
given away.
200. Impersonating Council Staff
(1) A person who is not a member of Council staff must not,  
in any way, hold themselves out to be a member of  
Council staff.
(2) A person who is not a member of Council staff must not 
produce a document that contains the Council logo or 
Council name, unless authorised by Council.
(3) A person who is not a member of Council staff must not use 
a document that contains the Council logo or Council name, 
unless authorised by Council.
 
===== PAGE 61 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
59
Schedule 5
GENERAL LOCAL LAW 2018
===== PAGE 62 =====
60 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
SCHEDULE 5
PROCEDURAL MOTIONS TABLE
Procedural motion Form Mover and seconder When motion prohibited Effect if carried Effect if lost Debate 
permitted  
on motion
1. Adjournment of debate  
to later hour and/or date
That this matter be adjourned  
to *am/pm and/or *date
Any Councillor who has not 
moved or seconded the original 
motion or otherwise spoken to 
the original motion
(a) During the election of a Chair; 
(b) When another Councillor  
is speaking
Motion and amendment is  
postponed to the stated time  
and/or date
Debate 
continues 
unaffected
Yes
2. Adjournment of debate 
indefinitely
That this matter be adjourned 
until further notice
Any Councillor who has not 
moved or seconded the original 
motion or otherwise spoken to 
the original motion
(a) During the election of a Chair;
(b) When another Councillor  
is speaking;
(c) When the matter is one in  
respect of which a call of Council  
has been made for that meeting in 
accordance with section 85 of the  
Act; or
(d) When the motion would have  
the effect of causing Council to be in 
breach of a legislative requirement
Motion and any amendment postponed 
but may be resumed at any later 
meeting if on the Agenda
Debate 
continues 
unaffected
Yes
3. The closure That the motion be now put Any Councillor who has not 
moved or seconded the original 
motion or otherwise spoken to 
the original motion
During nominations for Chair Motion or amendment in respect  
of which the closure is carried is  
put to the vote immediately without 
debate of this motion, subject to  
any Councillor exercising their right to 
ask any question concerning  
or arising out of the motion
Debate 
continues 
unaffected
No
===== PAGE 63 =====
City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
61
SCHEDULE 5
PROCEDURAL MOTIONS TABLE
Procedural motion Form Mover and seconder When motion prohibited Effect if carried Effect if lost Debate 
permitted  
on motion
1. Adjournment of debate  
to later hour and/or date
That this matter be adjourned  
to *am/pm and/or *date
Any Councillor who has not 
moved or seconded the original 
motion or otherwise spoken to 
the original motion
(a) During the election of a Chair; 
(b) When another Councillor  
is speaking
Motion and amendment is  
postponed to the stated time  
and/or date
Debate 
continues 
unaffected
Yes
2. Adjournment of debate 
indefinitely
That this matter be adjourned 
until further notice
Any Councillor who has not 
moved or seconded the original 
motion or otherwise spoken to 
the original motion
(a) During the election of a Chair;
(b) When another Councillor  
is speaking;
(c) When the matter is one in  
respect of which a call of Council  
has been made for that meeting in 
accordance with section 85 of the  
Act; or
(d) When the motion would have  
the effect of causing Council to be in 
breach of a legislative requirement
Motion and any amendment postponed 
but may be resumed at any later 
meeting if on the Agenda
Debate 
continues 
unaffected
Yes
3. The closure That the motion be now put Any Councillor who has not 
moved or seconded the original 
motion or otherwise spoken to 
the original motion
During nominations for Chair Motion or amendment in respect  
of which the closure is carried is  
put to the vote immediately without 
debate of this motion, subject to  
any Councillor exercising their right to 
ask any question concerning  
or arising out of the motion
Debate 
continues 
unaffected
No
===== PAGE 64 =====
62 City of Stonnington  General Local Law 2018 (No.1) AMENDMENT
Stonnington City Centre  
311 Glenferrie Road, Malvern
Depot 
293 Tooronga Road, Malvern
Open 
Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5pm 
T 8290 1333  F 9521 2255
PO Box 58, Malvern Victoria 3144 
council@stonnington.vic.gov.au
STONNINGTON.VIC.GOV.AU